.TH EJSVM "1" "March 2010" "ejsvm" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ejsvm \- Ejscript Virtual Machine.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ejsvm
[\fI--class className\fR] 
[\fI--modules "modules..."\fR]
[\fI--log logSpec\fR]
[\fI--method methodName\fR]
[\fI--search ejsPath\fR]
[\fI--version\fR]
module [arguments ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBejsvm\fR command runs Ejscript programs by loading and executing modules previously compiled by 
the \fBejsc\fR Ejscript compiler.  The \fBejsvm\fR command provides a Virtual Machine environment for ejscript 
programs complete with class loader, byte code execution, garbage collection and core system types.
.PP
If you wish to run Ejscript programs interactively or to parse and execute in one-step, use the \fBejs\fR command shell.
.SH INVOCATION
.PP
The \fBejsvm\fR command can optionally invoke a specific static method on startup. If either the --class or --method switches are 
supplied, then \fBejsvm\fR will run the requested static method after the input modules have been loaded and all 
global scripts have been run.
.SH ORDERING
The \fBejsvm\fR command will load the specified modules and all dependent modules. Dependent modules
are specified in programs via the \fBuse module\fR directive. After that \fBejsvm\fR will load any 
additional modules specified via the \fB--modules\fR switch including with their dependent
modules. After each module and its dependent modules are loaded, the global statements of the module will be executed.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\--class className\fR
Use the given className when invoking the method specified via --method.
.TP
\fB\--module "module ..."\fR
Normally modules are loaded automatically by the Ejscript loader in response to \fBuse module\fR directives in 
scripts, but you can use the \fB--modules\fR switch to load modules that contain global script code outside
any module directive.
.TP
\fB\--log logName[:logLevel]\fR
Specify a file to log internal execution messages. Ejs will log execution related trace to the log file. The log level
specifies the desired verbosity of output. Level 0 is the least verbose and level 9 is the most. Level 2 will include
trace of each source statement and assembler instruction executed (provided the source was compiled with --debug).
.TP
\fB\---method methodName\fR
Set the startup method name. Defaults to \fBmain\fR if a --className is specified and --method is not.
.TP
\fB\--search ejsPath\fR
Set the module search path. The module search path is a set of directories that the \fBejsvm\fR command will use
when locating and loading Ejscript modules.  The search path will always have some system directories appended 
to the end. These include paths specified via the \fB\ EJSPATH\fR environment variable and key system directories
such as the Ejscript system module directory and the directory containing the \fBejsvm\fR command.
.IP
The search path value is similar in format to the system PATH variable format. 
On windows, path segments are separated by ";" and on Linux, Unix, FreeBSD and MAC, the path segments are separated 
by ":" delimiters.
.IP
Given a module named "a.b.c" in a script, \fBejsvm\fR will use the following search strategy to locate the module:
.IP
1. Search for a module file named "a.b.c.mod"
.IP
2. Search for a module file named "a/b/c.mod"
.IP
3. Search for a module file named "a.b.c.mod" in the search path
.IP
4. Search for a module file named c.mod in the search path
.TP
\fB\--version\fR
Print the \fBejsvm\fR command version and exit.
.PP
.SH BACKGROUND
Ejscript is an enhanced implementation of the JavaScript language for use in embedded applications such as web 
servers, embedded and mobile devices. It is especially well suited for Server-Side JavaScript web applications.
.PP
Ejscript is a dynamic, interpreted, object-oriented scripting language that supports classes, objects, exceptions, 
statements, expressions and a powerful suite of data types.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to dev@embedthis.com.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2004-2010 Embedthis Software.  Ejscript is a trademark of Embedthis Software.
.br
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ejsc, ejsgen, ejs, ejsmod
