.TH APPWEBANGEL "1" "March 2011" "angel" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
angel - Embedded HTTP Server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP
.B angel [options] [program args]
[\fI--args arguments\fR] 
[\fI--console\fR] 
[\fI--daemon\fR]
[\fI--heartBeat interval\fR]
[\fI--home directory\fR]
[\fI--install\fR]
[\fI--log logFile:level\fR]
[\fI--start\fR]
[\fI--stop\fR]
[\fI--uninstall\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The angel program is a guardian angel for another program. It starts the designated program and then
watches over it to restart it should it fail. The angel is a robust, minimal program with one job - to ensure
the service remains available. 
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\--args arguments\fR
Arguments to use for the service program command line when it starts.
.TP
\fB\--console\fR
Windows specific option to allow the Angel process to interact with the users desktop.
.TP
\fB\--daemon\fR
Run the Angel as a daemon process. This causes the Angel to detach from the current shell and run in the background.
.TP
\fB\--heartBeat interval\fR
Set the frequency in seconds for the Angel to check on service. This period should be short enough that the service will
be quickly restarted should it fail, but not so short that the Angel process consumes significant CPU resources.
If the service dies more than 30 times per hour, the Angel will suspend restarting the service.
.TP
\fB\--home directory\fR
Set the home directory in which to start the service.
.TP
\fB\--install\fR
Windows specific option to install the Angel as a windows service.
.TP
\fB\--l logFile:level\fR
Specify a file to use for log messages. The level argument defines the message verbosity. Zero is the least and 9 is the 
most verbose.
.TP
\fB\--stop\fR
Windows specific option to stop the Angel service.
.TP
\fB\--start\fR
Windows specific option to start the Angel service.
.TP
\fB\--uninstall\fR
Windows specific option to uninstall the Angel as a windows service.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR
Output the product version number.
.PP
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <dev@embedthis.com>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2003-2011 Embedthis Software.
.br
.SH "SEE ALSO"
appweb
