.TH APPMAN "1" "November 2012" "appman" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
appman - Appweb manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP
.B appman [options] [commands]
[\fI--args arguments\fR] 
[\fI--console\fR] 
[\fI--daemon\fR]
[\fI--heartBeat interval\fR]
[\fI--home directory\fR]
[\fI--log logFile:level\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The appman program is used to configure the running of Appweb as a system service (daemon).
Appman provides a generic way to install/uninstall, enable/disable, start/stop, and run the Appweb service, regardless
of the operating system. When used to run Appweb, it starts Appweb and then watches over Appweb, to restart it 
should Appweb fail. Appman also provides general management commands to enable, disable, start, and stop appweb. 
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
\fBdisable\fR
Disable Appweb from automatically starting when the system is booted.
.TP
\fBenable\fR
Enable Appweb to start automatically on system boot.
.TP
\fBinstall\fR
Install Appweb as a service.
.TP
\fBrun\fR
Run Appweb and monitor its execution. Appman will automatically restart Appweb should it fail. Appman will block unless
it is invoked with --daemon.
.TP
\fBstart\fR
Start Appweb manually.
.TP
\fBstop\fR
Stop Appweb.
.TP
\fBuninstall\fR
Uninstall Appweb as a service.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\--args arguments\fR
Arguments to use for the service program command line when it starts.
.TP
\fB\--console\fR
Windows specific option to allow the manager process to interact with the users desktop.
.TP
\fB\--daemon\fR
Run the manager as a daemon process. This causes the manager to detach from the current shell and run in the background.
.TP
\fB\--heartBeat interval\fR
Windows specific option to set the frequency in seconds for the manager to check on service. 
This period should be short enough that the service will
be quickly restarted should it fail, but not so short that the manager process consumes significant CPU resources.
If the service dies more than 30 times per hour, the manager will suspend restarting the service.
.TP
\fB\--home directory\fR
Set the home directory in which to start the service.
.TP
\fB\--log logFile:level\fR
Specify a file to use for log messages. The level argument defines the message verbosity. Zero is the least and 9 is the 
most verbose.
.TP
\fB\--retries count\fR
Number of times to restart Appweb per hour.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR
Output the product version number.
.PP
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <dev@embedthis.com>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2003-2012 Embedthis Software.
.br
.SH "SEE ALSO"
appweb
