.TH APPWEB "1" "March 2011" "appweb" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
appweb\- Embedded HTTP Web Server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B appweb [options]
.br
.B appweb [options] [IP][:port] [documentRoot]
.P
.B appweb 
[\fI--config configFile\fR]
[\fI--chroot directory\fR]
[\fI--debugger\fR]
[\fI--log logSpec\fR]
[\fI--home directory\fR] 
[\fI--threads threads\fR]
[\fI--version\fR]
[\fI--verbose\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Appweb is a compact embedded HTTP web server.  It is a fast, small-footprint, multi-threaded, standards-based, 
portable server developed for use by embedded devices and applications.  It can run as a stand-alone 
web server or the Appweb library can be embedded in applications. 
.P
Appweb supports HTTP/1.1, SSL, digest and basic authentication, virtual hosting, ranged requests, chunked transfers, 
file upload and security limits.  Appweb has an Apache style configuration file and supports the PHP and Ejscript 
web frameworks. 
.P
Appweb normally reads the \fBappweb.conf\fR file for configuration directives. However, if appweb is invoked with 
an IP address or port number on the command line, Appweb will not read the configuration file. Rather it will
listen for requests on the specified IP:PORT address. If the PORT component is omitted, Appweb will listen
on port 80. If the IP address is omitted and a port is supplied, Appweb will listen on all network interfaces.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\--config filename\fR
Define the name of the Appweb configuration file. This is by default \fBappweb\fR.
.TP
\fB\--chroot directory\fR
Change the system root directory for Appweb. This creates a chroot jail so that the Appweb process cannot access
any files outside the given directory.
.TP
\fB\--debugger\fR
Run Appweb in debug mode and disable all timeouts. This disables request and session timeouts.
The \fB-d\fR option is an alias for --debug.
.TP
\fB\--log logSpec\fR
Name the Appweb log file. This will override the ErrorLog directive 
in the configuration file.  When the maximum size is exceeded, the log file will be rotated to logName.old 
and a new log file will be started. The \fB-l\fR option is an alias for --log.
The syntax is: 
.PP
.RS 6
 --log logName[:logLevel][.maxSize]
.RE
.TP
\fB\--home directory\fR
Define the server home directory for Appweb.
.TP
\fB\--threads numThreads\fR
Specify the maximum number of threads to use for the appweb thread pool. This 
overrides the ThreadLimit configuration file directive.
.TP
\fB\--verbose\fR
Shorthand for --log stdout:4. The \fB-v\fR option is an alias for --verbose.
.TP
\fB\--version\fR
Output the product version number.
.PP
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.B /etc/appweb/appweb.conf
.br
.B /var/www/appweb-default
.br
.B /usr/lib/appweb
.br
.B /var/log/appweb
.br
.PD
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <dev@embedthis.com>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2003-2011 Embedthis Software.
.br
.SH "SEE ALSO"
http
