.TH HTTP "1" "July 2012" "http" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
http \- HTTP Client program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B http [options] [files] url
.PP
[\fI--benchmark \fR]
[\fI--cert file\fR]
[\fI--chunk size \fR]
[\fI--continue\fR] 
[\fI--cookie cookieString\fR] 
[\fI--data\fR] 
[\fI--debugger\fR] 
[\fI--delete\fR] 
[\fI--form string\fR]
[\fI--header 'key: value'\fR]
[\fI--host hostName\fR]
[\fI--iterations count\fR]
[\fI--key file\fR]
[\fI--log logSpec\fR]
[\fI--method HTTP_METHOD\fR]
[\fI--nofollow\fR]
[\fI--noout\fR]
[\fI--out file\fR]
[\fI--password pass\fR]
[\fI--post\fR]
[\fI--printable\fR]
[\fI--protocol version\fR]
[\fI--provider name\fR]
[\fI--put\fR]
[\fI--range byteRanges\fR]
[\fI--retries count\fR]
[\fI--sequence\fR]
[\fI--showHeaders\fR]
[\fI--showStatus\fR]
[\fI--single\fR]
[\fI--threads count\fR]
[\fI--timeout seconds\fR]
[\fI--upload\fR]
[\fI--user name\fR]
[\fI--validate\fR]
[\fI--verbose\fR]
[\fI--workers count\fR]
[\fI--zero\fR] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
The http command issues HTTP commands to retrieve files from a web server. If "files" are provided on the command line
these are included in the request body data. 
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\--benchmark\fR 
Output timing results after retrieving URLs.
.TP
\fB\--cert file\fR 
Certificate authority file to validate server certificatess.
If using --cert, you will need to use --key to specify the private key file.
.TP
\fB\--chunk size\fR 
Request that web server use use transfer encoding for the response and break the response data into 
chunks of the requested size. This is an Appweb web server custom header and will be ignored by other web servers.
.TP
\fB\--continue\fR 
Continue on errors. Default is to stop on the first error.
.TP
\fB\--cookie cookieString\fR 
Define a cookie string to send with the request. Multiple uses okay.
.TP
\fB\--debugger\fR 
Run in debug mode and disable all timeouts. Useful when running a server in the debugger to prevent the client
from retrying or killing the request.
.TP
\fB\--data\fR 
String of raw body data to send with the request.
.TP
\fB\--delete\fR 
Issue a DELETE request. This is an alias for --method DELETE.
.TP
\fB\--form formData\fR 
String of body data to send with the request. Assumed to be URL encoded. ie. "name=paul&address=uk".
You cannot use this switch with either the --datafile or --form switches.
.TP
\fB\--header "key: value"\fR 
Add a custom header to send with the request. Multiple --header switches can be supplied.
.TP
\fB\--host name\fR 
Prepend all URLs with the specified host. For example if '-h www.myHost.com:8888" were used with the URL "/index.html", 
then http will retrieve http://www.myHost.com:8888.
.TP
\fB\--iterations count\fR 
Retrieve the URLs iterations times. Useful for load testing. This switch can also be abbreviated as \fB\-i\fR.
.TP
\fB\--key file\fR 
Private key file to use with the certificate file specified via --cert..
.TP
\fB\--log logSpec\fR 
Specify a file to log messages.  The syntax is: \fB"--log logFile[:logLevel]"\fR.
Level 3 will trace the request and response headers.
.TP
\fB\--method method\fR 
Set the HTTP method. Values may be "GET", "PUT", "OPTIONS", "TRACE".
.TP
\fB\--nofollow \fR 
Don't automatically follow redirects. Normal behaviour is to follow redirects and reissue the request if the server
responds with a redirection response (30X response).
.TP
\fB\--noout \fR 
Run in quiet mode and do no output. Suppress tracing requests.
This switch can also be abbreviated as \fB\-n\fR or as \fB--quiet\fR or \fB-q\fR.
.TP
\fB\--out file \fR 
Save response output to the given file.
.TP
\fB\--password passPhrase\fR 
Specify a password to send with the request. Requires a user name to be also specified via --user.
.TP
\fB\--post\fR 
Issue a POST request. This is an alias for --method POST.
.TP
\fB\--printable\fR 
Make binary output printable by printing hex digits for each character.
.TP
\fB\--protocol HTTP_VERSION\fR 
Use the specified HTTP protocol. httpVersion should be either '0' for HTTP/1.0 or 1 for HTTP/1.1.
.TP
\fB\--provider openssl|matrixssl\fR 
Select the SSL stack provider. 
.TP
\fB\--put\fR 
Issue a PUT request. This is an alias for --method PUT.
.TP
\fB\--range byteRange\fR 
Request that only the specified byte range of data be returned with the response. This will add a "Range" header to the request.
The range format  is:  Range: bytes=n1-n2,n3-n4,... where n1 is first byte position and n2 is last byte position.
Multiple --range switches can be supplied.
Examples:
.PP
.PD 0
       0-49             first 50 bytes
.PP
       50-99,200-249    Two 50 byte ranges from 50 and 200
.PP
       -50              Last 50 bytes
.PP
       1-               Skip first byte then emit the rest
.PD 1
.PP
.TP
\fB\--retries retryCount\fR 
Retry failed requests this number of times.
.TP
\fB\--showHeaders \fR 
Output HTTP headers to stdout. Useful for debugging.
.TP
\fB\--showStatus \fR 
Output the HTTP response code to stdout. 
If this switch is used, the command will always exit with zero status.
.TP
\fB\--single \fR 
Single step between requests by pausing for user input before proceeding.
.TP
\fB\--threads loadThreads\fR 
Number of threads to use. Each URL will be retrieved by all threads. Useful only for load testing. 
.TP
\fB\--timeout seconds\fR 
Specifies a timeout to use for each request in seconds.
.TP
\fB\--upload\fR 
Issue a POST request with multipart mime encoding for the files specified on the command line. This is an alias 
for --method POST with files on the command line.
.TP
\fB\--user user\fR 
Specify a user name to send with the request. If a password is not specified via --password, the program will 
prompt for a password (which will not be echoed). The username and password will be sent with the request
according to the authentication protocol required by the requested web server and requested document.
.TP
\fB\--validate\fR 
Validate server certificates when using SSL
.TP
\fB\--verbose\fR 
Verbose mode. Trace activity to stdout. Can by specified multiple times for more verbose tracing.  
This switch can also be abbreviated as \fB\-v\fR.
.TP
\fB\--workers count\fR 
Specify the number of worker threads to use. Worker threads temporarily assigned to process callbacks.
.TP
\fB\--zero\fR 
Exit with a zero status for any valid HTTP response. Normally returns a non-zero status if the HTTP response 
code is not a 2XX or 3XX series response code.
.PP
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to dev@embedthis.com.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2003-2012 Embedthis Software.
